Creating clusters document
==========================

The script to create clusters using popcon submissions its the
create_popcon_clusters.py, this script group the similar submissions into
clusters, analising the packages of submissions.

The first step of this script it's get all ordered debian packages with the
following command `$ apt-cache pkgnames`, then remove libraries and documents
with the regex '^lib.*' and '.*doc$'.

The second step is create the matrix of submissions, where each line it's a
popcon submission in binary format, and each column it's a package of all
debian packages, like the following examples:

  - debian packages:            git, gedit, vagrant, vim,
  - submission matrix:           1     0       1      0
                                 0     0       1      1

Analising the examples, the first popcon submission have the packages 'git'
and 'vagrant', the second submission have the packages 'vagrant', and 'vim'.

The third step is remove the unused packages of the matrix, for this examples
is remove the column of package 'gedit', then the matrix will be in the
following format:

  - debian packages:            git, vagrant, vim,
  - submission matrix:           1      1      0
                                 0      1      1

The fourth step is remove the little used packages, where remove packages
that used for less then 5% of users, this steps exists for remove packages
that can identify an user.

Then the submission matrix it's used to calculate the clusters with class
KMeans of python-sklearn. This clusters are saved on clusters.txt.

  - clusters.txt explanation:
    - This file contains the clusters positions in a cartesian plane, where
    each line represents a cluster. Each line of this file contains the
    cluster position into cartesian plane, example:

      - 0.1;0.5;0.7
      - 0.3;0.4;0.9

    - The cluster 0 is on the position [0.1, 0.5, 0.7] on cartesian plane, and
    the cluster 1 is on the position [0.3, 0.4, 0.9].

    - The dimensions of this cartesian plan it's the packages of all debian
    packages, explained in a previous examples.

    - The clusters values are necessary to calculate the distance between the
    clusters and a new point into cartesian plan, in this case the new point
    its a new popcon submission, with this distances its possible to know what
    the best cluster for this point, of course, the best cluster it's what is
    closer to the point.

Another output of create_popcon_clusters script it's a relation between
packages and the clusters that packages are included, whereas the submission
zero, that contains 'git' and 'vagrant', is on the cluster zero, and the
submission one, that contains 'vagrant' and 'vim', is on the cluster one, the
relation between packages and clusters follows the following example:

  - pkgs_clusters: git-0:1
                   vagrant-0:1;1:1
                   vim-0:1

This exemple shows that the package 'git' appears on cluster zero, one time,
and the package 'vagrant' appears on cluster zero, one time, and on cluster
one, one time, and the package vim appears on cluster zero, one time.

The relation packages clusters are saved on pkgs_clusters.txt, this file and
the cluster.txt are saved on popcon_clusters folder
